The automotive supply chain is generally divided into three players: OEMs,
Tier 1 suppliers, and Tier 2 suppliers.
OEM stands for, Original Equipment Manufacturer.
These are the brand name automotive companies that sell cars to consumers,
but OEMs do not necessarily develop all of their vehicle systems in-house.
OEMs outsource some development to what are called Tier 1 suppliers.
The OEM and Tier 1 supplier,
then take on a customer supplier relationship.
The OEM might provide requirements for what a vehicle system needs to do and then,
the Tier 1 supplier develops and produces the system for the OEM.
Or, the OEM might provide a preliminary product design and then,
the Tier 1 will finish the details.
Tier 1 companies, oftentimes outsource their own work to Tier 2 companies.
A common example would be,
a Tier 1 that sources an electronic control unit from a Tier 2 company.
Then, the Tier 1 supplier uses
the electronic control unit to develop an automatic braking system for the OEM.
In the safety plan,
there is a section called the Development Interface Agreement, or the DIA.
The DIA, delineates the design and
production responsibilities between the OEM and the Tier 1 supplier,
or the Tier 1 supplier and the Tier 2 supplier.
Why include the Development Interface Agreement in the safety plan?
One reason is to avoid disputes during the planning and development of a product.
Another reason is liability.
If a vehicle has a safety issue after being sold to consumers,
a Development Interface Agreement provides clarity about
which company is best positioned to fix the system.